## Assessment Evidence and Interpretation

Throughout this project, we rescoped our explorations and deliverables as we learned more about the dataset and had additional questions about the results we were seeing. These additional questions were generally in the form of "why?" and "What else should we explore in light of this?". For example, we initially proposed to use a neuroimaging dataset to investigate mental health trends, however this dataset was not conducive to our work in the mental health of the population at large; it was a very specific research question regarding respondents with bipolar disorder and depression. We realied this fairly quickly and pivoted to using another dataset: the 2012 National Survey on Drug Abuse and Health. In this dataset, we explored a handful of different substances and the impact of these substances on mental health and long-term lifestyle changes (taking care of familr members, seeking treatment, and so on). Although we emphasized the different axes of diversity to explore in our initial proposal, most of the exploratory visualizations we generated in these past two weeks have been more about the overall picture with substance use (comparing respondents who never, rarely, occasionally, or often use the substance). It was challenging to explore a dataset with an incredible amount of features (the codebook was approximately one thousand pages and the dataset has more than 3000 features); we feel that we have only just barely scratched the surface of the stories in the dataset. We have a handful of high level trends and possibilities to follow up on, such as the differences in emotional trends between people who never use the substance, people who use it daily, and everyone in between.

In regards to our deliverables, we made a poster (CTW_Poster.pdf) and accompanying supplemental report (CTW_Packet.pdf) to help deliver this first round of insights to the public at large. We found it was difficult to narrow down which visualizations to include on the poster; there is only so much physical space on the poster and cognitive load in an audience member to absorb the trends and visuals. We hoped that the poster would be enticing enough to prompt interested individuals to peek at the supplemental report. (The poster is standalone, and the report is meant to be for motivated audience members after the presentation. We realize this is not optimal for all audiences, but this is what we could curate in our limited time.) Admittedly it is tough writing for a very general audience and figuring out which examples are the most emotionally compelling. In retrospect, narrowing down the audience to a particular group would have been easier, but would not have accomplished the high-level goal of informing the public at large and having these deliverables help dissolve the stigma around talking about mental health. We hope to be assessed on how well the poster conveys our messages, and whether or not the packet is a meaningful supplement after experiencing the poster presentation.

## Changing the World

Our project has the potential to change the world by decreasing the stigma surrounding mental illness and increasing awareness. This stigma causes people to believe that mental health problems aren't "real" and seeking help makes them weak; we found that these are the largest barriers to getting treatment. Also, by informing the public at large, we hope the message will be clear to policymakers who have the potential to help improve the resources in this space through a top-down approach. The complicated trends in our data reflect the complicated, human aspects of mental health and prompt for a thoughtful response when piloting new mental health treatment and awareness programs. From the grasroots level, having these visualizations as conversation starters for communities to acknowledge how pervasive mental health issues are in the community, and making this a wider discussion beyond tight friend circles.

## Learning Goals
In our proposal, the learning goals we mentioned were data cleaning/engineering, dataset explorations, representing insights, communication skills, infographics/portfolio design, and creating clear, concise visualizations. We gained experience in most of these areas to varying degrees. We were fortunate that the 2012 National Survey on Drug Abuse and Health was relatively "clean" already and did not require much additional processing before we could dive into visualizations. Dataset explorations was the learning goal that we accomplished the most: this was our first time with such a large dataset without extra scaffolding, and being able to have team discussions about 1) where to start 2) asking big questions to big data 3) generating visualizations to answer those questions 4) those visualizations resulted in even more questions!! 5) and so on. In the second week we found that having a team checkin meeting for high-level exploration strategy discussions and then answering separate, but related, questions independently allowed to cover more ground more quickly. In regards to representing insights, communication skills, and creating clear, concise visualizations: our checkins with Paul helped us make the relative frequencies convey the insights more effectively to our audience; without relative frequencies, the respondents' experiences with various levels of drug abuse were hidden in the crowd of the entire respondent pool. Curating the poster was also relevant to this goal of communication. We did not have the bandwidth to fully explore information design beyond what we generated in the jupyter notebooks due to time constraints (this is a later step in the data journalism process; we remained in the exploration and initial visualization phase). 

